## Authentication
methodologies for authentication

- Login form
- Token based API
- Two-Factor
- Single sign-on-server
- and more... name it.


## Authorization
- roles
- access controls
- and more.... name it

### What is the bundle name for security feature?
`symfony/security-bundle`

### How to create an authentication system?
why its important? It will allow user to login :)

#### 1. Create a `User` class
there is maker bundle to help us creating a `User` class

##### how to install maker-bundle?
```bash
composer require symfony/maker-bundle 
```
maker-bundle version 1.7 comes with new command  `make:user`

`make:user` command required to have you installed `security` package

##### What `make:user` command does?
1. creates `User` Entity
2. it makes `User` Entity which implement `UserInterface`
2. creates a UserRepository if we want to store the data
3. security.yaml inside config/packages

### How to add more fields using command?
https://symfony.com/doc/master/doctrine.html#doctrine-add-more-fields

### Does it required to run migration, after updating the entity?
Yes

### How to run migration?
```bash
 bin/console make:migration
 bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate
```

### What is UserProvider?
a class that helps with a few things, 
- like reloading the User data from the session
- like remember me https://symfony.com/doc/master/security/remember_me.html
- impersonation. https://symfony.com/doc/master/security/impersonating_user.html

### Do we need to create UserProvider class when we use User Entity?
No, Fortunately, the make:user command already configured one for you in your security.yaml file under the providers key.

> If your User class is an entity, you don't need to do anything else. But if your class is not an entity, then make:user will also have generated a UserProvider class that you need to finish.

https://symfony.com/doc/master/security/user_provider.html

##### `UserInterface::getUsername()`?
This method only used by symfony to display who is currently logged in on the web debug toolbar

## Configuration
## Providers
## Firewalls
## Users
## Passwords encoders
## Roles
## Access Control Rules
## Guard authenticators
## Voters and voting strategies