---
id: object-serialization
title: DDD
---
### Serializing Objects

Serialization is the conversion of an object to a series of bytes, so that the object can be easily saved to persistent storage or streamed across a communication link. The byte stream can then be deserialized - converted into a replica of the original object.

PHP is able to automatically serialize most of its variables to strings - Letting you save them into storage like $_SESSION. However, there are some tweaks to avoid exploding scripts and performance problems.


#### Primitives

The **serialize()** primitive function takes a PHP variable as its argument and returns a string from which this variable can be reconstructed: **unserialize($string)** performs the opposite job:

`$ php -r 'var_dump(serialize(42));'` string(5) "i:42;"

`$ php -r 'var_dump(unserialize("i:42;"));'` int(42)


The serialization process is automatic, and you do not have to implement any marker interface. It works on scalars, arrays and objects alike

However, it follows field references:

#### Object
Using serialize to save an object will save all variables in an object. The methods in an object will not be saved, only the name of the class.

> Note that static members of an object are not serialized.

In order to be able to unserialize() an object, the class of that object needs to be defined. That is, if you have an object of class A and serialize this, you'll get a string that refers to class A and contains all values of variables contained in it. If you want to be able to unserialize this in another file, an object of class A, the definition of class A must be present in that file first. This can be done for example by storing the class definition of class A in an include file and including this file or making use of the spl_autoload_register() function.

```php
// classa.inc:
  
  class A {
      public $one = 1;
    
      public function show_one() {
          echo $this->one;
      }
  }
  
// page1.php:

  include("classa.inc");
  
  $a = new A;
  $s = serialize($a);
  // store $s somewhere where page2.php can find it.
  file_put_contents('store', $s);

// page2.php:
  
  // this is needed for the unserialize to work properly.
  include("classa.inc");

  $s = file_get_contents('store');
  $a = unserialize($s);

  // now use the function show_one() of the $a object.  
  $a->show_one();
```
It is strongly recommended that if an application serializes objects, for use later in the application, that the application includes the class definition for that object throughout the application. Not doing so might result in an object being unserialized without a class definition, which will result in PHP giving the object a class of __PHP_Incomplete_Class_Name, which has no methods and would render the object useless.

Beyond the above advice, note that you can also hook into the serialization and unserialization events on an object using the __sleep() and __wakeup() methods. Using __sleep() also allows you to only serialize a subset of the object's properties.

```bash
$ php -r '$object = new stdClass; $object->field = new stdClass; var_dump(serialize($object));'

string(50) "O:8:"stdClass":1:{s:5:"field";O:8:"stdClass":0:{}}"
```

so if you're referencing an ORM or framework objects from your own serialized ones, you're likely to grab the whole library with it. A simple way to avoid this serialization dependency is to pass the collaborator on the stack instead of injecting it into the object's field:

```php
class MyObject
{
   public function doSomeWork(View $view)
       // refer to $view instead of $this->view
   }
}
```

#### Forbidden types

Some variable types cannot be easily ported from one OS process to another, and as such are unsuitable for serialization:

*   variables of type _resource_ (open files, streams, old-style connections)
*   objects that store resources inside them (a PDO instance representing a database connection)
*   closures (for some reason probably related to their references established with the _use_ statement)

Every object that composes one of these variables encounter the same problem too: an exception thrown during serialization.

#### Solutions when deals with Forbidden types

#### 1. __sleep() and __wakeup()

This pair of optional magic methods can tell PHP to serialize just part of an object, resulting in an implementation of the (Memento pattern)[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memento_pattern].

`__sleep()` should return a list of strings, which correspond to the field names representing the state of the object we want to store.

```php
class Connection
{
   protected $connection;
   private $server, $username, $password, $db;

   public function __sleep()
   {
       return ['server', 'username', 'password', 'db'];
   }
}
```

This method will be called during serialization to determine what to insert in the representation (excluding for example the closures you defined and stored on $this.)

`__wakeup()` is called instead of the constructor after deserialization, in order to allow the object to reestablish a link to the current process. It has no arguments, so if you want to define it you'll have to grab the collaborators from some global state (singleton, static, global variable) or recreate them by yourself.

The alternative to a `__wakeup()` method is a Repository object that passes in collaborators during reconstitution, before returning a valid object.


#### 2. Serializable interface

This interface is an alternative to __sleep(). It allows you to specify what to serialize programmatically, by calling serialize() on a subset of the object's fields.


```php
class Obj implements Serializable
{
   private $data;
   public function __construct() {
       $this->data = "My private data";
   }
   public function serialize() {
       return serialize($this->data);
   }
   public function unserialize($data) {
       $this->data = unserialize($data);
   }
}
```


The interface is an alternative to __sleep() in the sense that you can only use one or the other method, not both.

serialize()/unserialize()

*   __sleep() is executed with serialization, IF available
*   Allows you to specify which properties should be stored (serialized) and which should not be stored.
    *   Can also create/change properties for serialization
*   __wakeup() is executed with unserialization, If available
    *   Ex: to open a database connection unique to the object.

[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/804045/preferred-method-to-store-php-arrays-json-encode-vs-serialize](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/804045/preferred-method-to-store-php-arrays-json-encode-vs-serialize)

[http://jmsyst.com/libs/serializer](http://jmsyst.com/libs/serializer)

[http://jmsyst.com/libs/serializer/master/cookbook](http://jmsyst.com/libs/serializer/master/cookbook)

### Serializable Interface
http://php.net/manual/en/class.serializable.php