---
id: automated-tests
title: Behat
---
## Automated Tests

### Unit tests with PHPUnit
https://symfony.com/doc/4.0/testing.html#unit-tests


### How to disable constructor when mocking an object?
`$this->getMockBuilder('My\Class')->disableOriginalConstructor()->getMock()`


### Which Symfony class offers method to test commands?
https://symfony.com/doc/4.0/console.html#testing-commands

### Using PHPUnit, which method allows to specify a mock response on second call?
`$mock->expects($this->at(1)`

### Using PHPUnit, which method allows you to expect an exception to be thrown?
`$this->expectedException('MyException')`

### base component required to write functional test
`composer require --dev symfony/browser-kit`
`composer require --dev symfony/css-selector`

### functional tests location directory
`tests/Controller`

### functional tests namespace
`App\Tests\Controller`

### Example functional tests
```php
// tests/Controller/PostControllerTest.php
namespace App\Tests\Controller;

use Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Test\WebTestCase;

class PostControllerTest extends WebTestCase
{
    public function testShowPost()
    {
        $client = static::createClient();

        $crawler = $client->request('GET', '/post/hello-world');

        $this->assertEquals(200, $client->getResponse()->getStatusCode());
    }
}
```

### Base class for functional tests
`WebTestCase` 
Which is 
1. an abstract class with a `createClient` static method
2. extends `KernelTestCase`


### What does the `client` object which is created by `createClient` method?
 it does the browser simulation and helps to make http calls into your Symfony application
```php
$crawler = $client->request('GET', '/post/hello-world');
```

### What is the parameter order in the request?
- 1. HTTP method
- 2. URL

> Hardcoding the request URLs is a best practice for functional tests

### What Client Request method returns?
a Crawler instance

### What is Crawler?
A Crawler instance is returned each time you make a request with the Client. It allows you to traverse HTML documents, select nodes, find links and forms.

### Where the crawler located?
`Symfony\Component\DomCrawler`

### how to apply css selector in crawler
```$crawler->filter('html:contains("Hello World")')```
it will return Nodes that match the CSS selector.

### how to apply XPath expression in crawler
```$crawler->filterXpath('h1')```
it will return Nodes that match the XPath expression.

### How to return a node by index
`$crawler->filter('html:contains("Hello World")')->eq(1)`

### How to return first node
`$crawler->filter('html:contains("Hello World")')->first()`

### How to return last node
`$crawler->filter('html:contains("Hello World")')->last()`

### How to return siblings nodes
`$crawler->filter('html:contains("Hello World")')->siblings()`

### How to return all following siblings nodes
`$crawler->filter('html:contains("Hello World")')->nextAll()`

### How to return all preceding siblings nodes
`$crawler->filter('html:contains("Hello World")')->previousAll()`

### How to return all parent nodes
`$crawler->filter('html:contains("Hello World")')->parents()`

### How to return all children nodes
`$crawler->filter('html:contains("Hello World")')->children()`

> Each of these methods returns a new `Crawler` instance

### get the number of nodes stored in a Crawler
`$crawler->filter('ul.tags > li')->count()`

### What is Profiler?
Symfony provides a powerful profiler to get detailed information about the execution of any request.

### How to install profiler
`composer require --dev symfony/profiler-pack`

https://symfony.com/doc/4.0/profiler/data_collector.html
https://symfony.com/doc/4.0/profiler/profiling_data.html
https://symfony.com/doc/4.0/profiler/matchers.html
https://symfony.com/doc/4.0/profiler/storage.html

### How to Use the Profiler in a Functional Test?
https://symfony.com/doc/4.0/testing/profiling.html


### Framework objects access
It's highly recommended that a functional test only tests the response. But under certain very rare circumstances, 
you might want to access some internal objects to write assertions. In such cases, you can access the Dependency Injection Container:

```php
// will be the same container used in your test, unless you're using
// $client->insulate() or using real HTTP requests to test your application
$container = $client->getContainer();
```

> If the information you need to check is available from the profiler, use it instead.

### Client configuration
https://symfony.com/doc/4.0/testing.html#testing-configuration


### Request and response objects introspection
### PHPUnit bridge
### Handling legacy deprecated code